# Bankruptcy-Prediction-RF-algotrithm
The aim of bankruptcy prediction is to analyze the financial situation. Lending agencies like banks, must ensure that debtors are financially stable. It helps knowing how the company has been performing and also makes it easy for investors to compare companies in the same industry and give best investment option. Old methods like expert experience and statistical methods only useful if the predictor is knowledgeable in the field plus rise in cost and time. Here, we introduced a hybrid, easier, and more practical solution in which we develop a new tool based on the Artificial Intelligence technique of the Random Forest algorithm, which has yet to be marketed. The tool named Bankruptcy Prediction System (BPS) has been registered its copyright under MyIPO. BPS has a high potential for commercialization in all lending agencies and investment industries because it improves the decision-making process by predicting the likelihood of a company going bankrupt. BPS is being tested using a set of data collected from the Emerging Markets Information Service (EMIS), a database containing information on emerging markets around the world to build a classification model. According to the findings of the tests, BPS ensures the accuracy of the bankruptcy predictions up to 90% and beyond. BPS is flexible as it can customize the classification model with different data. BPS is beyond the prototype as it provides a better technique to predict the companies status toward bankruptcy and ready to assist the lending and investment industries worldwide.
